first draft (#3392)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2022-03-24-e2e-computer-vision.md

have a local machine powerful enough to quickly train CV models, then definitely
give Experiment Management features a try and check out this
[blog post](https://dvc.org/blog/ml-experiment-versioning). Here, however, we
are assuming that we'll be modifying the parameters of our experiments locally
while the training process itself will happen on cloud-based resources like AWS
EC2.

### Leveraging Cloud Resources with CI/CD and CML

If you ever wondered if there's an easy way to quickly and easily:

1. provision a powerful VM in the cloud
2. submit your ML training job to it
3. get the results back
4. automatically shut down the VM without having to worry about excessive cloud
   bills

then the answer is yes if you use [CML library](https://cml.dev/) in combination
with CI/CD tools like [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) or
[GitLab CI/CD](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/).

We've configured three
[workflow files](https://github.com/iterative/magnetic-tiles-defect/tree/master/.github/workflows)
for GitHub Actions, each of which corresponds to a particular stage depending on
the project's lifecycle we are in:

> 1. [Workflow for experimentation and hyperparameter tuning](https://github.com/iterative/magnetic-tiles-defect/blob/master/.github/workflows/train-model.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Workflow for experimentation and hyperparameter tuning](https://github.com/iterative/magnetic-tiles-defect/blob/main/.github/workflows/1-experiment.yaml)
```

   In this stage, we'll be working on an experimentation git branch:
   experimenting with data preprocessing, changing model architecture, tuning
   hyperparameters, etc. Once we think our experiment is ready to be run, we'll
   push our changes to a remote repository (in this case, GitHub). This push
   will trigger a CI/CD job in GitHub Actions, which in turn will:

   1. provision an EC2 virtual machine with a GPU in AWS
   2. deploy our experiment branch to this machine
   3. rerun the entire DVC pipeline
   4. push files with metrics and other DVC artifacts back to GitHub

   At this point, we can assess the results in DVC Studio and GitHub and decide
   what things we want to change next.

```mermaid
flowchart TB
A(Commit to exp branch) -->|Push changes| B("Exp CML workflow\n(training & reporting)")
B --> |Reports,\\nmetrics,\\nplots| C("Check results.\nAre they good?")
C --> |No\\nchange experiment parameters | A
C -->|Yes| D(PR to dev branch)

> ```

Reviewer: This is pending from #3300 , right ?

1. [Workflow for deploying to the development environment](https://github.com/iterative/magnetic-tiles-defect/blob/master/.github/workflows/dev-train-upload-deploy.yaml)

   Once we are happy with our model's performance on the experiment branch, we
   can merge it into the dev branch. This would trigger a different CI/CD job
   that will:

>    1. retrain the model with the new parameters

Reviewer: If I understand the workflow correctly, dvc won't actually run the pipeline, right?

If this is True, it feels like this workflow should not launch a cloud instance nor try to run the pipeline at all, unless we are considering the possibility of someone pushing changes directly to develop?

   2. deploy the web REST API application (that relies on the new retrained
      model) to a development endpoint on Heroku

   Now we can test our API and assess the end-to-end performance of the overall
   solution.

```mermaid
flowchart TB
A(Merge to dev branch) --> B(Retraining) --> C(Deployment to dev environment)

```

> 1. [Workflow for deploying to the production environment](https://github.com/iterative/magnetic-tiles-defect/blob/master/.github/workflows/prod-deploy-api-to-heroku.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Workflow for deploying to the production environment](https://github.com/iterative/magnetic-tiles-defect/blob/master/.github/workflows/3-deploy.yaml)
```

   If we've thoroughly tested and monitored our development web API, we can
   merge the development branch into the main branch of our repository. Again,
   this triggers the 3rd CI/CD workflow that deploys the code from the main
   branch to the production API.

```mermaid
flowchart TB
B(Merge dev into main) --> C(Prod CML workflow) --> D(Deployment to prod)

```

> ### Experiment Management with DVCLive and Studio

Reviewer: Again, It feels like the above section could be expanded into a separate blog post. 

I would like to see the actual code (or a simplified version) corresponding to each of the bullet points that describe what each workflow does.

> [Studio](https://studio.iterative.ai/) is a web-based application with seamless

Reviewer: Given that we had set up a CI/CD workflow, I would expand this section including info about the ability to perform data/params updates and Run Experiments from Studio UI https://dvc.org/doc/studio/user-guide/views/run-experiments
